LAINEY: The high school
college fair,
the one event of the year
that had kids
looking to the future...
With complete terror.
A lot of kids
couldn't handle it.
Please don't cry,
Jimmy.
It's one rejection letter
from one college.
And the parents
were even worse.
[CRYING] But I wanted Lily
to go to Cornell!
It was a tough job that no one understood more than Principal Glascott.
Hey there.
How's the first week
of the college fair going?
I had no idea
it'd be this crazy.
Well, as principal,
I'm here if you need me.
I appreciate that.
Oh, I was actually
just gonna go to lunch.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I'm no longer
here as Principal.
Now I'm here as Uncle John
to my niece Felicia.
'Sup?
[DOOR CLOSES]
All right, let's get
this over with.
I, uh, don't have
anyplace to be,
but I already find
all of this boring.
So much sass.
It's infectious!
So, let's talk college.
Okay.
Oh, B-plus average,
not bad, but I guess
if there's something
to focus on,
it'd be this...
This is blank.
That's usually a list
of the student's
extra-curriculars.
What can I say,
I'm not a joiner.
Well, with a transcript
like this
what colleges are
on Felicia's list?
There's Prinson.
Princeton?
That's a top school!
No, I said "Prinson."
Right, Princeton.
No, there's no "ton."
It's "son." Prinson.
That's very different.
What else?
Harvert.
Harvard!
With a "T."
Gotta listen closely
with these.
She'd likely get
into Columbia...Sweet!
...Agricultural Institute
of Guam.
Damn it!
Oh, and also Northwestern...
Finish it.
...Montana Polytechnic.
Great. Sounds like I have
lots of options.
So, I'll see you guys
tomorrow.
It's only
fourth period!
Wow, day got away
from me!
Look, these initial meetings
can rattle some folks.
CB, I'm the Principal
of this school.
I totally get it.
Good.
But as her de facto parent,
this is a disaster.
Prinson?
My niece is headed
to Prinson?
All right, Prinson!
I'm a Prinson grad.
That school made me who I am.
Go Bucketmen! [LAUGHS]
♪ One of these days
You're gonna get outta here
♪ Live your life
and finally be free
♪ Go where you wanna go
Do what you wanna do
♪ Someday, you will say
"Those were the days" ♪
LAINEY:
It was February 20th,
1990-something,
and the wrestling team
was pumped for Geology 101,
better known as
Rocks for Jocks.
MR. SCUDAMORE:
Gentlemen, these...
Are rocks.
And this is a...
Rock tumbler?
Yes!
Very good, Ronnie.
It was a class for athletes
to get an easy "A."
This time-honored tradition of giving jocks special treatment
had gone on for years
until this happened.
[FABRIC STRETCHING]
[STRAINING] My tie!
Where are all those
poor dummies gonna
get their easy "A" now?
I'm so glad
you brought this up.
I want you to
"teach"
an "academic"...
"course"...
You mean
Rocks for Jocks?
I never heard it
referred to that way.
Wink.
I loved that class.
I took it three times
when I was a cheerleader.
Would you have any ethical
issues with that?
None whatsoever.
If it's easy for the class,
it's easy for me.
I like easy.
I had a feeling
you were the right
choice for this.
Always happy
to do less work.
With my insane
full-time class schedule,
I was thrilled to get a break,
so a new easy-"A" class
was born...
Musicology 101.
AKA Rock for Jocks.
ALL:
♪ All that glitters is gold
♪ Only shooting stars
♪ Break the mo-o-old ♪
[BELL RINGS]
Great sing-along
today, guys.
Tomorrow, we're gonna dig in
to Mambo No. 5.
I hear you're taking over
for Mr. Scudamore.
Okay, don't panic. I'm not
gonna get all "teacher-y"
and make these guys "work"
for their "grades."
That's exactly
what I want you to do!
What?
"Rocks for Jocks"
has been a thorn in my side
for years.
Yeah, but Earl Ball
told me to...
This whole system
of giving kids an easy "A"
may work for him,
but I think these boys
deserve better.
Well, I took the class,
and I loved it.
Mmm.
You ever find yourself
laying awake at night
staring at the ceiling,
wondering,
"Is this all there is
to life?"
And that maybe there's
a well of greatness
deep down inside of you,
that for whatever reason
never got tapped?
And so that greatness
will remain undiscovered.
All because this school
robbed you of a challenge.
Okay! I'll teach
the stupid class for real.
There she is!
While Coach was pumping me up, CB was trying to lay low.
CB,
is everything okay?
Just trying to take a breather
from those crazy parents.
[CHUCKLES]
They are the worst, right?
Exactly.
[BOTH LAUGH]
So, about Felicia.
[SIGHS]
Looking through her files,
I couldn't help but
notice that there were
some pretty glaring
omissions.
Like all of these awards
she won.
"Cleanest Locker Award."
First recipient ever.
This one
just says "Student."
Is she not?
The William Penn
Purple Heart?
Wow, that's amazing!
You can't put these
in her record.
Colleges will see
right through those.[SIGHS]
When I saw her sad file,
I panicked!
I just want the best for her,
like Harvard or Yale.
Those schools only accept
the most incredibly
qualified applicants, like...
Gina Rivera.
She's valedictorian,
captain of the dance team.
Not to mention,
she's campaigning right now
for School President,
third year in a row.
Got it.
So I need to make Felicia
do more
extra-curriculars.
I tend to discourage parents
from forcing their children
into doing anything
they don't want to do.
I hear you. It never helps
when parents push too hard.
But I'm her uncle,
so there are no rules!
[LAUGHS]
♪♪
You're gonna run
for Class President.
What? No way.
But it would help you
get into a good college.
And wouldn't it be fun
to become part of your
school community?
You really don't know
what I'm about, do you?
Okay, but you're gonna be
missing out
on some pretty sweet
perks.
What perks?
Um...
$8.
$8?
A day?
That's, like,
$1,600 a year.
Wow, you added that up
really fast.
Is it that much,
though?I'm in.
Let's do this thing.
Yeah, why wouldn't you?
I mean, $1,600
is an insane amount
to give a child
[CHUCKLES]
but yeah!
We're doing it!
♪ All that glitters is... ♪
All right,
enough Smash Mouth.
[MUSIC TURNS OFF]
Find your seats.
Time to learn.
Learn what?
Music.
From here on out,
this will be a real class
with a syllabus,
required reading,
and term papers.
Coach Mellor is gonna have
a real issue with this.
Actually,
it was his idea.
How are we supposed to get
our easy "A" if it's not easy?
The whole team's
gonna fail music,
get ruled ineligible,
and not be able to wrestle.
Or you could actually learn
and get your first real "A."
I believe in you boys!
Believe in us less!
If you put your minds to it,
you can do anything.
So, you believe
I can be an astronaut
and live on the moon?
Yes.
I suppose you believe
I could crush a mountain
with my bare hands?
Yes!
Can I live forever?
Do you believe
I can do that?
Yes! I believe through
dogged research,
you can discover the story
of the Incan Elixir of life,
make plans to fly
to Machu Picchu,
only to twist your ankle and
end up in an emergency room,
where you meet a young
and kindly nurse.
The two of you fall in love,
marry, have children,
and come to discover
that true immortality
is in the lessons we pass on
to those who come after us.
Gah!
So inspiring!
LAINEY: Clearly,
Coach saw limitless
potential in his athletes.
And John was starting
to see exciting new things
for his niece.
Here you go.
Oh, look at you,
talking to kids who
have actual futures.
Hey, one guy said
he's in a club
where kids
pretend to represent
different countries.
And then they argue and
debate and declare war.
Is that
really a thing?
Yeah, it's called
Model UN.
Is that something
that interests you?Maybe.
Well, it's great
you're even thinking about it.
Hey, would it be cool
if later we worked
on my speech together?
Work on your...
I'm gonna cry right here
in this hallway, Felicia.
Please don't.
Too late.
The tears
are already coming.
I'm gonna go.
She wants my help.
Did you see Felicia?
For once she's passionate
about something
that doesn't involve
wine coolers or loud music!
Unlike Shania Twain,
that do impress me much.
I really don't appreciate
your taste in music.
So let's revisit her list
of potential colleges?
Don't get so ahead
of yourself.
Come on,
she's already changing.
I just saw her talking
to some Honor Society kids,
and not in a threatening way!
[CHUCKLES]
All it took was a small bribe
to get her on the right path.
Wait, you bribed her?
Just $8 a day.
That's $1,600 a year.
How is everybody
doing that math so fast?
I'm glad she's getting
more involved,
but if we're gonna
be honest,
she's not gonna win
the election.
I don't want you
to take this personally,
but you are the worst
college advisor
this school has ever had.
Gina's won twice before,
and she churns out
professionally made posters
at her dad's Kinko's.
The whole operation is
a well-oiled machine.
Well, you know what
Gina doesn't have?
Cool buttons!
What do kids love more
than buttons?
So many things, John.
[TECHNOTRONIC'S PUMP UP
THE JAMPLAYING IN DISTANCE]
DANCE SQUAD: [CHANTING]
Vote Gina! Vote Gina!
Vote-vote!
Vote Gina!
♪ And the jam is pumpin'
What is happening?
What is this?
This is Gina's
well-oiled machine.
♪ Get your booty
on the floor tonight
♪ Make my day
She's dancing
with half the energy
but still manages to look
like the coolest one!
♪ Get your booty
on the floor tonight
♪ Make my day ♪
[CHEERS AND APPLAUSE]
Thank you
for your support!
And now, all the way
from Veterans Stadium,
the Phillie Phanatic!
[APPLAUSE]
How is Felicia supposed
to compete with that?
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God!
I am a huge fan.
I go to all the games
just to watch you dance.
Can I have a hug?
Oh!
♪♪
So I just
finished my speech
and I gotta say,
this thing is awesome.
Can I read it
to you?
Of course!
But I-I just wanna say,
win or lose, you should
be really proud of yourself.
Do you think
I'm gonna lose?
No!
I mean, sure,
Gina does have
the endorsement
of the inexplicably charming
Phillie Phanatic.
The Phillie Phanatic?
Look, kids don't care about
a delightfully furry mascot
that brings laughter
and joy to all.
They care about
the issues.
See this is why
it's better not to try stuff
and take chances.
You just get
your heart broken!
That's it,
I'm dropping out!
No, wait!
Okay, look,
here's the thing
I'm not supposed
to say, but...
You're gonna win.
What?
I had the homeroom teachers
do an informal poll.
The polls say
you're way ahead.
Really?
'Cause it sounded like
you were trying
to let me down easy.
[LAUGHS]
It was a confusing exchange,
I know.
But you'll stay
in the race?
Absolutely.
That's my girl.
You know, a-at first,
I was doing this
because I wanted
the money.
But now
I want to win.
And I think I can!
And you're the one
who got me to believe that.
Oh, look at you,
hugging me.
Because you're grateful.
For what I've done...
LAINEY: Despite the
jocks' complaints,
Coach wasn't gonna let them get their easy "A," and he was pumped to have me on board.
The days of
a free pass are over
and it's all because of you,
Lainey Lewis.
You're pushing my boys
to do the hard work
necessary to succeed.
Yeah, except they're
not succeeding.
I just gave them a simple quiz
on the history of music.
Look at these answers.
"Who is Beethoven?
A big slobbery dog."
Technically true...
"What is R&B?
Rompin' and bompin'."
"Who is
the King of Rock & Roll?"
Wait for it...
"Smash Mouth."
Okay, look,
all these guys need
is time and more of
your good teaching.
No, what they need is
an easy "A" to balance
out all their bad grades
so they can make
it through school.
Damn it, don't you understand?
That's the whole corrupt
system I'm trying to change!
They're here because
they're good wrestlers,
not because
they're good students.
But that doesn't mean
they can't get better.
You keep trying to make them
something they're not.
I'm going back
to teaching Rock for Jocks.
I'm not gonna be the one
who fails these guys
and ruins their season.
By not failing them,
you are failing them!
No, by not failing them,
I'm not failing them!And that's failing them!
Well, I'd rather fail them
by not failing them
than fail them
by really failing them!
Oh, you wish
it was that simple!
LAINEY: So I gave up on trying to teach Coach's wrestlers.
But Rick Mellor
never gave up.
[WHISTLE BLOWS]
All right, let's play
some basketball.
Let's break up
into teams.
[WHISTLE BLOWS]
Except the wrestlers.
You guys
are gonna do something
a little bit different today.
Lift weights?
No.
Climb ropes?
Don't try to guess.
Uh, four square.
No, you won't guess it.
Uh, lift weights.
You already guessed that.
Badminton.
It's much easier if you let me
tell you what it is.
Play basketball.
That's specifically
what I said
we won't be doing.
Now stop it.
Your assignment today
is to provide
an in-depth interpretation
of a piece of classical music.
Since Ms. Lewis
won't assign it
to you in her class,
I'm assigning it to you
in my class.
Due tomorrow.
You can't assign us
regular work in a gym class!
Well, if you don't do it,
you'll fail.
Oh, and, uh,
I still believe in you.
♪♪
LAINEY: Coach may have
come down hard on his guys,
but Glascott was softening up his niece's rival.
Is everything okay,
Principal Glascott?
Stop looking for parking.
You have a new
personal parking spot
right here in front
of the school.
Really?
You bet.
Because you've been
chosen to be...
The Principal's
Executive Intern!
I've never heard of that.
That's because
it's only awarded
when someone
is truly deserving.
Now pull that baby in
so I can introduce you
to the world of perks
that await!
♪♪
May I present you
your own private bathroom!
Seriously?
Absolutely.
But if a disabled student
or teacher needs to use it,
please give them
first preference.
I'm not sure
what to say!
Nothing else to say!
Oh, one minor detail.
School rules stipulate
you can only hold one
executive position at a time,
so you'll need to drop out
of the presidential race.
Congrats again!
Bye now!
Whoa,
you're trying to bribe me
into dropping out of the race
so your niece
can run unopposed!
Did I not tell you about
the handrails in there?
They help steady you
when you're on the toilet.
I know a bribe
when I see one.
My parents bribe me
to do stuff all the time.
How do you think I'm driving
around in a Benz?
It is a preposterous car
for a teenager.
Absolutely.
And you know what?
I'm into this.
I'll take your payoff.
After all, I've already
been President twice,
and I'm early acceptance
to Yale.
And now I have this
over you.
Everybody wins!
Politics!
[MUFFLED ROCK MUSIC PLAYS]
Mother of...
[CD PLAYER THUDS]
[CLEARS THROAT]
What do you want?
Coach told us we had
to do a presentation
about classical music.
We need your help!
No, no, no, no, no.
I am not getting involved.
If you won't help us,
we'll have to try
to do it ourselves!
No!
You will not learn
in my class!
Not today, not ever!
I love
what I'm hearing!
What are we
gonna do?
Why does Coach have
to believe in us so much?
Yeah, doesn't he get
that we're dummies?
You're not dummies.
You know as well as we do
why we're at this school.
'Cause we do sports.
Come on,
that's not true.
A smart jock once told me
that you should take
every opportunity
to face a challenge and
prove what you're made of.
Coach Mellor doesn't just
hand out "I believe in yous."
That means he really sees
some potential in you guys.
So let's prove him right.
What's the assignment?
An in-depth interpretation of
a piece of classical music.
Due tomorrow.
Ah!
Okay, let's do it.
Take a seat.
[WHISTLING]
Hey, John,
you got a sec?
Of course, CB.
[WHISTLING]
GLASCOTT: Hey, there's
my intern
with someone I hope
is not her father.
This is Gina's father.
[BLEEP]
Mr. Rivera
has voiced concerns
about Gina dropping out
of the race,
apparently
at your urging.
How dare you bribe
my daughter?
It wasn't
a bribe, per se.
It was just
a secret offer of perks
in exchange
for her dropping out
of the race.
That's bribing.
Okay, you're right.
I'm sorry.
The only reason I offered her
the bribe was because
I have this huge surplus
in my copier budget,
and I don't know
what to do with
the giant pile of money.
John, don't.
Say, you own a Kinko's,
do you not, sir?
Stop right there.
You got a deal.
CB: Okay, enough.
We cannot let bribery
and self-interest
corrupt the world
of politics!
Okay, I'm out
of control.
There's just so much pressure
on kids these days.
And I wanted Felicia
to get into a good school,
like Gina.
I never should have
bribed Gina or anyone.
I was just afraid that Felicia
could never win on her own.
Wow.
Felicia?
I forgot to mention that
Felicia was coming
to the meeting, too.
Wait, I can explain.
Great, go ahead.
Um...
That's what I thought.
I just need a second!
I didn't expect you
to turn around so fast!
You know,
you're always pushing
me to reach higher,
and I always resisted because
I never believed in myself.
But the truth is,
you don't believe
in me either.
♪♪
LAINEY: It was time
for the jocks to turn in
their assignment,
and Coach Mellor was psyched to see if they rose to the challenge.
All right, boys.
Time to put the "student"
in "student-athlete."
Let's see
your presentation.
Well, well, well,
looks like somebody
helped my boys after all.
All I can say
is I tried.
Today we will be
interpreting for you
Smash Mouth's All Star,
a song that everyone knows
is totally classic!
♪ Somebody once told me ♪
Whoa! This is not
what I assigned.
Coach, just give them
a chance. It's music.
There are no rules.
Fine. Given the fact
you only had 24 hours,
I will allow it,
but it better be good.
You might think this song
is just a super dope
party jam,
but its lyrics
have a lot to say.
"The years start coming
and they don't stop coming."
That means the years...
AKA time.
Start coming.
AKA you're born.
And they don't stop coming.
AKA you get older.
What Smash Mouth is
trying to say here
is that it's important
to cherish the precious
time we have
before the years
totally stop coming.
AKA you dead.
A reminder of the fleeting
nature of human existence.
Remind me to give my brother
a call after this.
"Your brain gets smart,
but your head gets dumb."
As you evolve
intellectually,
you may un-evolve
emotionally.
Wow, that's deep.
I like this side
of you, Weasel.
And in conclusion,
"All that glitters is gold.
"Only shooting stars
break the mold."
break the mold"
means if you give it
your all,
you may be surprised
where it takes you.
[LAUGHS]
Well, as far as academic
presentations go,
this was unconventional,
but it had a very unique
point of view.
And the guys put in
so much work.
I could tell.
You know, boys, in life
you will be faced
with many challenges.
Some small,
some great.
But if you apply yourself,
if you give it
everything you've got,
then no matter
what the outcome,
you can hold your head high.
Congratulations, men.
You get
an "A" in gym,
but, more importantly,
you'll get an "A"
in life!
♪ Hey, now, you're an all star
It looks like no more
Rocks for Jocks
for you, either.
I'm glad you finally
convinced me
to give up the easy "A."
Maybe if I had done that
back in the day,
I could've achieved
my full potential.
I think you're well
on your way, Lainey Lewis.
Thanks, Coach.
Thank you.
♪ It's a cool place,
and they say it gets colder
♪ You're bundled up now,
wait 'til you get older
♪ But the meteor men
beg to differ
So,
the votes have been counted,
and it was very close.
Gina, you are once again
school President.
[EXHALES SHARPLY, GIGGLES]
Congratulations.
You really do know
how to run a terrifyingly
good campaign.
Thanks!
[LAUGHS]
You okay?
I really wanted to win,
but I'm okay.
You're doing better
than your uncle.
I told him that you lost
and he started to cry.
Let him cry.
He really did go a little far
trying to win
this thing for you.
He took a bathroom away
from handicapped kids.
Your uncle is the most honest
person I've ever known.
That he was willing to bribe
so many people to help you,
it just proves how much
he cares about you.
I guess.
And running for office,
meeting new kids,
signing up for Model UN,
would you have done
any of that stuff
if your uncle didn't believe
in you in the first place?
♪♪
Felicia?
What's this?
The list of
my extra-curriculars.
Model UN?
That's great.
Yeah, I guess
I'm a joiner now.
I'm so sorry
I got carried away.
I know it was just
because you love me.
I really do.
I guess that can make me
as crazy as any parent
or Principal-Uncle
at this school.
[CHUCKLES]
Oh.
LAINEY: Sometimes,
believing in ourselves
isn't always easy.
♪ Hey, now,
you're an all star ♪
We need a boost from
the people who care for us
to reach our full potential.
And that's what teachers do.
They show us that when we take a chance and push ourselves,
when we really go for it,
we learn we can overcome
any obstacle in life
and achieve amazing things.
I'm here with the, uh,
real Coach Mellor.
First question is, well,
you coached for 43 years.
Yes, yeah, I did.
Still coaching now.Still coaching.
Did you ever wear shorts
that were this short?
They're a little long for me,
to tell you the truth.
Is that right?
They're a little long?
Were there any
easy-"A" classes
at William Penn Academy
back in the day?
Yes, mine.
Really? [LAUGHS]
If they participated
and tried, they got an "A."
Participation and trying,
I wish that worked
in Hollywood.
What is the one thing kids
could never get away with?
Cutting a class,
'cause I was a student there
and I knew all
the hiding places.
You know, what would you say
is the hardest thing
about being a teacher?
Trying to be fair
to all the kids,
keeping everybody involved,
and letting the kids know
that they can succeed in
whatever they do.
Do you think that
I portray you unfairly?
That's a tough question.
[BOTH LAUGH]